README

  Honeytrap  is  a network security tool written to observe attacks
  against TCP or UDP services. It runs as a daemon and starts serv-
  er  processes dynamically on requested ports. A server emulates a
  well-known service by simply sending captured network traffic  to
  a connected host.

  Many  clients  and particularly attackers will be fooled and send
  responses to a honeytrap server process. The arriving data is as-
  sembled to a string and written to a database file. Such a string
  is called an attack string.

  Honeytrap can parse an attack string for  commands  advising  the
  server  to  download a file from another host. If a download com-
  mand is found, the server tries  to  retrieve  the  corresponding
  file  automatically.  A downloaded file is stored locally with an
  md5 checksum in its name. Currently, only ftp and tftp  are  sup-
  ported.  Honeytrap implements its own clients with the aim to be-
  have as similar as possible than Windows systems. Http  URIs  are
  recognized  and  logged.  A http download routine may be added in
  future releases.

  Version 0.5.0 introduces the mirror mode (option '-m'). When run-
  ning in this mode, whenever a connection request is handled, hon-
  eytrap tries to establish a so called mirror connection  back  to
  the  remote  host  requesting the same port. All data received on
  one of the two connections is copied to the other one. Thus, hon-
  eytrap is acting as a tcp proxy for a connection of a remote host
  with itself. If no mirror connection can be  established,  honey-
  trap falls back to normal mode.

  A  plugin  interface  was  added in Version 0.6.0. Plugins can be
  loaded as dynamic shared objects. Also, honeytrap can now be con-
  figured  via a configuration file. The file is reprocessed when a
  SIGHUP is received so changes can be  made  available  with  zero
  downtime.

  Version  0.6.2  comes  with  lots  of new features. Using the new
  proxy mode, Connections can not only be mirrored back to the ini-
  tiator,  but proxied to other systems and other ports. The appro-
  priate mode can optionally be configured per TCP port. A new, li-
  bipq-based  connection  monitor  was introduced (idea stolen from
  the nepenthes honeytrap module).

INSTALLATION

  Installation of honeytrap should be pretty straight forward. Just
  do  a  './configure  --with-<type>-mon  &&  make && make install'
  where '<type>' is the connection monitor  type  of  your  choice.
  Please  refer to the INSTALL file and to the output of './config-
  ure --help' for further information.

WARNINGS

  Honeytrap is a low-interactive honeypot and therefore detectable.
  It  is  written  in  C  and thus potentially vulnerable to buffer
  overflow attacks. Take care. Running in mirror mode is dangerous.
  Attacks  may  be directed to the attacker, appearing to come from
  your system. Use with caution.

  The program needs root privileges, but only  for  binding  server
  processes to well-known ports. Use the -u and -g command line op-
  tions to drop privileges and switch to another user and group  as
  early as possible.

THANKS

  Many thanks to Steve, Gary to help me debugging compile errors on
  FreeBSD and OpenBSD and to lots of others who  helped  me  fixing
  bugs.

CONTACT

  If  you  have  problems,  questions, ideas or suggestions, please
  contact me at <tillmann.werner@gmx.de>. If you would like to help
  making honeytrap better, you are welcome.
